---Carpe Diem---
Good morning. it's 0807 and I'm sitting here in the kitchen, with a sore tooth and a milky coffee feeling sorry for myself. It's not too bad, but I can feel the enamel fading pretty hard on one tooth in particular. Ah well. It's not debilatating. I'll get to it. Anywho I'd like to do a reflection on the roadtrip with seany

found a gig for tonight. I asked Paddy, Taylor, Jess, Imo and Alex if they're keen to hit a dj set at the perky nel. I'm not too fussed either way. it might be nice to have a night in and just jam and work away. But if people are keen then that'd be rad. 

---todos---

today: 
    

now: 
done: 
    morning jam
    reflect on roadtrip with seany
    find a gig for tonight.
    edit

---roadtrip with seany---

so in the end we went for a little bit more of a conservative roadtrip, but a lot of fun nonetheless. We headed up to scotland and back over four days. We popped a tyre on the way up and didn't have the kit to fix it, but old mate from Hardy's tyres saved us and the insurance is sorting it out. We saw Morgan and Rob meek in Edinburgh. I checked out port of leith distillery, panda and sons, kay's bar, we didn't try oxford bar from the book moo gave me though so there's something for next time. We stopped by the Royal Oak and had a jam, I hit up a club iwth Rob and his girl Annabella, bella. We went to the devil's pulpit and loch lomond before checking out Glasgow for a turkish feed. But on the way back was quite an intense chat. All the way we've been wondering whether the van was worth it, or just a hardway hall move, the thing our family has about doing things the hardest way. But in the end, for me at least, it was worth it, because of the chat i had with seany on the way home. 

It seems Seany and I share a trait. He says it's a family one, and it's both a blessing and a curse. We have the trait of being people people, which is a good thing. We love to make people happy and enjoy acts of service for others. A bit of a jesus complex. The negative side of this is that we're people pleasers, offering things for the sake of offering them when they're unasked, often useless for the receiver who has to say no and sometimes lead to self harm. As in we harm ourselves through the acts of service we do for others. Now I'm not saying sacrifice is unimportant, but it needs to be, like all things, tempered. 

Seany has come to a realisation lately that he spoke with me at length on during the trip back. His realisation was that a way to tempered this family trait of wanton people pleasing is honesty. Being honest with ourselves about what we want, and being honest with others about what we want. It seems like such a simple idea, and a bit of a no brainer, but never before have I really considered that alot of the problems I have socially and spritually, stem from this source. The way seany described it was as an impurity, and each time we lie to ourselves or others about what we want, it puts little holes in our integrity and we carry that around with us. It feels wrong and makes us bitter and that bitterness turns to anger towards the people around us, which ends up being much worse than if we'd been upfront in the first place. Of course there's an art to not being blunt about the thing, charm in honesty becomes much more important than in people pleasing flattery and lies, but there's are two key things to keep in mind: 
    By commiting to hoenstly doing what you want, you become free and gain agency
    You are not responsible for other peoples opinions.
If we always keep these ideas in mind, it leads to a state of being that, for me, is as powerful as the zen sense of letting go. In fact, I feel like a combination of these two states, striving for honesty to a fault and letting go, are the two parts of what Alan Watts calls a 'really swinging human being' In fact, i'll look up that quote: 
    
    Now, what I would call a really swinging human being is a person who lives on two levels at once. He’s able to live on the level of being his ordinary ego, his everyday personality, and play his role in life, and to observe all the rules, and so on, that go with that. But if he is only on that level—if he’s only playing that kind of thing—and thinks that’s all there is, it becomes a drag. He starts being the kind of person who feels that he’s just got to go on surviving, see? It’s terribly important to go on surviving; to live. And he works at that. And his children learn the same attitude from him. And they—he says, “Well, I’ve got to survive because I’ve got all these children I have to support,” and so on, and so forth, and then they take the same attitude, and they breed up children, and they feel compulsive about supporting them, because they’ve got to go on. And so nobody really has any fun. It’s just... “Ungh! Ungh! Ungh! Ungh!” You’ve got to make this thing! You see? And you don’t have to!

    See, whenever I get somebody who comes to me and says, “I really can’t go on. I have to commit suicide,” I say, “Well, that’s entirely your right. There’s really no reason why you should go on, and if you want to commit suicide, do it.” You can check out. Of course, this reduces anxiety; when they feel free to commit suicide they don’t really have to commit suicide so much. You know, you can commit partial suicide. So the sense that you just have to go on living, see? That life is a ‘must,’ when you say to anything spontaneous—see, life is spontaneous. It happens—in the words of the Taoists—zìrán (自然), which means “of itself so”—that’s the Chinese expression for nature, what happens by itself. What isn’t pushed, but it just pops up, you see?

    Like—gee, I’ll never forget—there was a great Zen master I knew once, in New York. He was giving a lecture one evening, and he was dressed in his gold ceremonial robes, and he was sitting in front of an altar like this sort of thing—but he had a table in front of him with very formal candles on it and a sūtra scripture on a little desk—and he was lecturing on the sūtra. And he said, “Fundamental principle in Buddhism is: no purpose. Purposelessness. When you drop fart, you don’t say, ‘At nine o’clock, I drop fart.’ It happen of itself.” You know? All these pious Western devotees, you know, kind of put their handkerchiefs in their mouths and tried not to laugh.

    So—but, that’s the meaning of “something that happens of itself,” like “drop fart,” or “have hiccups,” or—just—you came into being, you know? It happens in a kind of a plop! way, like that—see? Now, you can’t tell that process, “You ought to happen! You must happen!” Because that puts a bind on it in the same way as when you have little child, and all the relatives have come to a party on Thanksgiving, and you put the child in the middle of all the relatives and say, “Now, dear, play!” See? It absolutely bugs the child to do it like that. And so this is the problem for every artist. Because an artist is a man who makes his living by playing. Whether he’s dancing, or painting, or playing music, or whatever it is, and he has to overcome this problem. He has to know how to play in public at a given time on an appointment, see? And that’s not an easy thing to learn. But when you catch on to the trick of it, you can do it—to play on demand. That’s the hardest lesson of life: to contrive—what is called by my Japanese artist friend Saburo Hasegawa—a controlled accident.

    source: https://genius.com/Alan-watts-the-web-of-life-part-2-a-spontaneous-life-annotated 

God damn that's a long quote. but the key things to pull out are 

    Swinging human being = two levels 
    
    Level one = ordinary ego, everyday personality, role in life, observe the rules

    Living just on level one is a drag, if one thinks that's all there is. Develop intense anxieties, like the person who wants to commit suicide and is told they can, whenever they want, doesn't feel like they want to commit suicide so much. It's a partial suicide. 
    
    Level two = letting go of ego, purposelessness, drop fart, play

    Living on this level is living according to nature, the chinese expression for nature anyway, or the Taoists—zìrán (自然), which means “of itself so”, that which is sponetaneous, just pops up.

    The artist develops a skill of Hasegawa - a controlled accident i.e. playing on demand, the ability to move between level one and level two at will. 

So, with that in mind. Here's my take on where I'm currently at as this brain in a vat. I've got an okay handle on Hasegawa, the controlled accident, the shift between one and two, but my playing by the rules on level one has been out of whack. This is because I haven't been honest, which in fact requires a good deal of selfishenss, positive selfishness but selfishenss nonetheless. The selfishenss of accepting that I have needs and desires and actually examining what they are and then telling people what they are as the need arises. To push this aspects down creates bitterness and holes in integrity. And I reckon i've been able to get away with it for the longest time because I've got this second level. It's an escape from the reality of level one in some ways, that I'm not living according to what I want a lot of the time. 

So, all that to say, seany and I talked through some intense stuff, and how we might better live according to what we want, and how it was important to be honest and it's stuck with me like a big balm of honey on my brain. it feels great. I feel kind and loving towards the world but also powerful and free and with great agency. Another weird aspect is that people take notice of people who bring their truth into the world. I think we can sense it, instinctually, when someone has a vision. It's comforting, a little sexy and when tempered with calm and charm, not the least bit violent. Without the calm and charm, especially when coming from a big bloke, i think this is what leads to toxic masculinity. And that's when you're asking for things too brutally, and then get bitterness from the other direction, of constant rejection even when you're trying to be honest. But real honesty is about considering that everyone also wants things and that you need to be accepting of these things. I'm lucky in that that aspect comes naturally to me, but the being honest with myself and others part, that what I need to work on, and remind myself of constantly in order to have a better time as a swinging human being in level one.



