---Carpe Diem---

---todos---

today: 
    edit
    fix pop os
    apply for writing gig on linkedin. 
now: 
done: 
    coffee date with charlie
    bought casetify
    sent seany scottish accounts 
    set up ministry of stories volunteering
    jam
    study buskers code london (in telegram notes)
    password protect a json file on windows command line
    reached out to Michelle for professional reference (ministry of stories)
    create todo backlog
    Personal Reference - Ministry of Stories Prep - Sammy Clarke
    Professional Reference - Ministry of Stories Prep - Michelle Harrison
    vaccumming and recylcling
    write - 1300 words on character bible and first draft

---command line commands---
password protect a json file on windows command line (requires 7zip)
    
    7z a -p"YourPassword" -mhe=on output.7z your_file.json

Let's break down this command:
    a: Add files to archive
    -p"YourPassword": Set the password (replace "YourPassword" with your chosen password)
    -mhe=on: Enable header encryption for additional security
    output.7z: Name of the output archive
    your_file.json: Your JSON file to be encrypted

After running this command, you'll have a new file named output.7z that contains your encrypted JSON file.

    7z x output.7z


---relationships---

Charlie isn't sleeping well so I asked claude how to help without being pushy or overbearing. here's what I got: 

    Here are some ideas to support your partner who isn't sleeping well, without being overbearing:

    Express your concern gently: Let them know you've noticed their sleep troubles and you're there to help if needed.
    Listen without judgment: Sometimes, just talking about sleep issues can help. Offer a sympathetic ear without trying to solve everything immediately.
    Encourage good sleep hygiene: Suggest creating a relaxing bedtime routine together, like reading or light stretching.
    Create a sleep-friendly environment: Ensure the bedroom is dark, quiet, and cool. Consider blackout curtains or a white noise machine if helpful.
    Offer to take on more responsibilities: Temporarily handling more household tasks can reduce their stress and give them more time to rest.
    Suggest relaxation techniques: Introduce them to meditation apps or breathing exercises that may help calm their mind before bed.
    Promote healthy habits: Encourage regular exercise and a balanced diet, but avoid being pushy about it.
    Be patient and understanding: Lack of sleep can affect mood and behavior. Try to be extra patient if they seem irritable.
    Suggest a health check-up: If the problem persists, gently propose seeing a doctor to rule out any underlying health issues.
    Give them space: Sometimes, trying too hard to help can add pressure. Let them know you're there, but allow them to manage their sleep independently if they prefer.

    Remember, everyone's needs are different. Observe what seems to help and adjust your support accordingly. If you'd like more specific advice or have additional concerns, feel free to ask.

---writing---

its 1745 and we're back. taken quite the break since como. I was working on little tech things to try and get a job. I think I still will, but when its time to write there's not much stopping it I suppose. had a great jam today, and was writing a lyric or two, tinkering with old songs. Perhaps that's one of the signs I'm ready to go again. who knows. 

Anywho we're starting at 137281. lets go.

its 1759 and we're at 137553. another 1800ish to go.

its 1818 and we're at 137553. I've popped a few notes in the character bible to link up the mushroom mechanics into the magic system. back to le book.

its 1847 and we're still at 137553. I've popped a few more notes in the character bible. around 760ish and thats up to 1806. lets combine the tally. it's useful stuff. total 1100 ish to go. 

its 1913 and we're at 137983. 700 to go. 1300 down. not a bad first day back.